Painting a portrait.
Perfecting a new basketball move.
Playing a solo on guitar.
They all share something in common.
Can you guess what it is?
If you thought "practice,"
you're absolutely correct!
It takes time, dedication, and
focus to improve these skills.
The security profession is no different.
Planning for
the future is a core skill that you'll
need to practice all the time in security.
We all deal with uncertainty by trying
to solve problems before they arise.
For example, if you're going on a trip,
you might think about the length
of the trip and how much to pack.
Maybe you're traveling somewhere cold.
You might bring coats and
sweaters to help keep you warm.
We all want to feel the security of
knowing that there's a plan if something
goes wrong.
Businesses are no different.
Just like you,
organizations try their best to
plan ahead by analyzing risk.
Security teams help companies
by focusing on risk.
In security, a risk is anything that
can impact the confidentiality,
integrity, or availability of an asset.
Our primary focus as security
practitioners is to maintain
confidentiality, integrity,
and availability,
which are the three
components of the CIA triad.
The process of security risk planning is
the first step toward protecting these
cornerstones.
Each organization has their own unique
security plan based on the risk they face.
Thankfully, you don't need to be familiar
with every possible security plan to be
a good security practitioner.
All you really need to know are the basics
of how these plans are put together.
Security plans are based on
the analysis of three elements: assets,
threats, and vulnerabilities.
Organizations measure security risk by
analyzing how each can have an effect on
confidentiality, integrity, and
availability of their information and
systems.
Basically, they each represent the what,
why, and how of security.
Let's spend a little time exploring
each of these in more detail.
As you might imagine, an asset is
an item perceived as having value to
an organization.
This often includes a wide range of
things. Buildings, equipment, data,
and people are all examples of assets
that businesses want to protect.
Let's examine this idea more by
analyzing the assets of a home.
Inside a home, there's a wide
range of assets, like people and
personal belongings.
The outside structure of a home is made
of assets too, like the walls, roof,
windows, and doors.
All of these assets have value, but they
differ in how they might be protected.
Someone might place a lower priority
on protecting the outside walls than on
the front door, for example.
This is because a burglar is more likely
to enter through the front door than
a wall. That's why we have locks.
With so many types of assets to think of,
security plans need to
prioritize resources.
After all,
no matter how large a security team is,
it would be impossible to monitor every
single asset at all hours of the day.
Security teams can prioritize
their efforts based on threats.
In security,
a threat is any circumstance or
event that can negatively impact assets.
Much like assets,
threats include a wide range of things.
Going back to the example of a home,
a threat can be a burglar
who's trying to gain access.
Burglars aren't the only type of threat
that affect the security of windows
and doors.
What if either broke by accident?
Strong winds can blow the door
open during a bad storm.
Or, kids playing with a ball nearby
can accidentally damage a window.
If any of these thoughts crossed your mind,
great job!
You're already demonstrating
a security mindset.
The final element of a security plan that
we're going to cover are vulnerabilities.
In security, a vulnerability is a weakness
that can be exploited by a threat.
A weak lock on a front door, for example,
is a vulnerability that can
be exploited by a burglar.
And old, cracked wood is a different
vulnerability on that same front door that
can increase the chances of storm damage.
In other words, think of vulnerabilities
as flaws within an asset.
Assets can have many different types of
vulnerabilities that are an easy target
for attackers.
We'll explore different
types of threats and
vulnerabilities in greater detail later.
For now, just understand that security
teams need to account for a wide range of
assets, threats, and vulnerabilities
to effectively plan for the future.